<h1> Reflection Exercise </h1>
<hr>
<h4>1. Reflect on creating interfaces for your body. Consider how we engage with tools – how does this impact how your body extends into the tools around you? What possibilities do you see?  </h4> 
<p>As a left-handed person, I’ve struggled a lot with handling tools over the years. I still remember how frustrating it was to spend days trying to change my Wacom tablet orientation so that I can use the side buttons, or the many moments in computer labs where I attempted and failed (due to the short wires) to move the mouse from the right side of the table to the other end. It’s not all bad though, since I eventually learned to use my right hand for everything except writing. This brings me to the most fascinating aspect of human learning, the brain. While I am fascinated by how the hand has shaped the way we interact with the world, I am even more fascinated by the infinite possibilities that our brain creates for us. According to Haggard, P. et al (2010), our brain has a flexible understanding of the limitation of the physical body. In other words, the brain can process foreign objects and allow them to become an extension of our bodies (Haggard, P. et al, 2010). Therefore, creating endless possibilities while using the hand and body as powerful mediums to interact with the world using technology as an extension of us (Perry, P., Schedel, M., 2022). </p>

<h4>References:</h4>
<BLOCKQUOTE> Haggard, P., Longo, M. You Are What You Touch: How Tool Use Changes the Brain's Representations of the Body, Scientific American, 2010. Available at: https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/you-are-what-you-touch/ (Accessed: 12 October 2021)</BLOCKQUOTE>
<BLOCKQUOTE>Perry, P., Schedel, M. Believe by Making, Francis Taylor Press, 2022. Unreleased. Introduction and Chapter 1 </BLOCKQUOTE>

<br>
<hr>
<h4>2. How are these materials for these sensors created? How are they disposed of? Who does that impact?</h4> 
<p>Ideally, the most appropriate way to assemble sensors is by recycling materials and tools that we don’t need anymore. My Naturewatch Camera project is a perfect example of a sustainable project that utilizes cheap materials found in every household to assemble a camera sensor to document wildlife without human presence or our directly interference (Gaver, B et al., 2019). It’s significant to note that the impact of sensors and technology generally, depends entirely on the way they are used. For instance, sensors can help us regulate environmental problems by measuring pollution and climate change (Gabrys, J., 2019). On the other hand, these technologies can have a detrimental effect such as the case of using AIS to track ships carrying migrants to Europe (Gabrys, J., 2019). </p>

<h4>References:</h4>
<BLOCKQUOTE> Gaver, B. William Gaver, Andy Boucher, Michail Vanis, Andy Sheen, Dean Brown, Liliana Ovalle, Naho Matsuda, Amina Abbas-Nazari, and Robert Phillips. 2019. My Naturewatch Camera: Disseminating Practice Research with a Cheap and Easy DIY Design. In Proceedings of the 2019 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI '19). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, Paper 302, 1–13. DOI:https://doi.org/10.1145/3290605.3300532
</BLOCKQUOTE>
<BLOCKQUOTE>Gabrys, Jennifer. “Sensors and Sensing Practices: Reworking Experience across Entities, Environments and Technologies,” introduction for the special issue, “Sensors and Sensing Practices,” co-edited with Helen Pritchard and Lara Houston. Science, Technology & Human Values 44, no. 5 (1 July 2019 online first), doi:10.1177/0162243919860211.</BLOCKQUOTE>
